start with the latest on the Israel Gaza
War President Biden has said he hopes a
ceasefire in Gaza could start at the
beginning of next week he says Israel
has agreed in principle not to carry out
Military activities against Hamas in the
Gaza Strip during Ramadan which starts
in 2 weeks the Reuters news agency says
Hamas has received a draft proposal from
Gaza Tru talks in Paris which includes a
40-day Paws in all military operations
and the exchange of Palestinian
prisoners for Israeli hostile is at the
ratio of 10 to1 here's the US president
speaking late on
Monday you give us a of when you will
start sir well I hope by the the
beginning of the weekend I mean the end
of the weekend at least my my my
National Security advisor tells me that
we're close we're close it's not done
yet and My Hope Is by next Monday we'll
have a ceasefire well in the hours after
that statement President Biden appeared
on Late Night with Seth MERS on NBC
where he made those comments about
Israel agreeing in principle not to
engage in military activities in the
Gaza Strip during the Muslim holy month
of Ramadan Mr Biden said such a
commitment would allow the hostages
being held by Hamas to be released as we
said negotiations for a temporary
ceasefire continue Israel and amas have
been holding so-called proximity talks
in Kata there are reports that 400
Palestinian prisoners serving sentences
for Terror related crimes could be
exchanged for 40 female and elderly
Israeli hostages the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to
go ahead with an assault on gaza's
Southernmost city of Rafa regardless of
any agreement our Middle East
correspondent yolan Nell is in Jerusalem
and shared this update on what we know
about a possible ceasefire definitely
the most positive comments that we've
had yet those ones from President Biden
although even he said my National
Security tells me advisor tells me we're
close we're not there yet um we know of
course that us negotiators have been
been pushing for some kind of pause for
hostages deal to start before the
Islamic holy month of Ramadan that's
expected to be on about the 10th of
March um and there have been these
important talks have been taking place
in Paris in the past week involving uh
the Israelis also caterie and Egyptian
mediators I have to say the reports we'd
seen in the Israeli media in the past
couple of days were less positive about
the likely outcome of those the US state
department had also been more cautious
about the prospects of a new deal saying
that it depends on Hamas what we're
hearing from the Reuters news agency
this morning is that Hamas officials are
now studying what's being called the
Paris framework um and according to a
source quoted by Reuters who's close to
the talks um that deal includes a 40-day
ceasefire um it would include the
release of Israeli hostages for
Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails
at a ratio of 1 to 10 The Source says
and that during um this longer pause um
there would be a big increase in the
amount of Aid going into Gaza something
like 500 Lor loads a day and that there
would also be uh repairs allowed to
hospitals and to bakeries in Gaza yeah
also President Biden appearing on NBC
saying that Israel has agreed in
principle not to carry out Military
activities against Hamas in the Gaza
Strip during Ramadan that's starting in
the next two weeks do you think the fact
that the Muslim holy month is coming is
focusing
Minds
uh definitely and we've had uh Arab
leaders coming out talking about how if
this continues the fighting um during
Ramadan this could be a big inflammation
uh for people around the entire region
so that has been something that uh the
negotiators have been very mindful of uh
during the latest round of talks it's
something that Palestinians in Gaza of
course are really hoping for as well
that there could be some kind of
reprieve from the fighting at that time
uh they could be able to have some uh
some form of a break during Ramadan Sean
n in Jerusalem